Add edge docs (#498)
elastic/opentelemetry: docs/reference/architecture/hosts_vms.md

These edge collectors have two main purposes:

1.  The collection of local logs and infrastructure metrics. Refer to [this sample config file](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/internal/pkg/otel/samples/linux/managed_otlp/platformlogs_hostmetrics.yml) for recommended Collector receiver configurations for hostmetrics and logs.
2.  Enriching application telemetry from OTel SDKs that run within the instrumented applications on corresponding hosts with resource information.

## Deployment scenarios

Refer to the recommended architectures per Elastic deployment scenarios.

:::{note}
Elastic's Observability solution is technically compatible with edge setups that are fully based on contrib OTel components as long as the ingestion path follows the recommendations outlined in the following sections.
:::

### {{serverless-full}}

{{serverless-full}} provides a [Managed OTLP Endpoint](/reference/motlp.md) for ingestion of OpenTelemetry data.

![VM-Serverless](../images/arch-vm-serverless.png)

Users can send their OTel data from the edge setup in OTel-native format through OTLP without any additional requirements for self-managed preprocessing of data.

### {{ech}}

> Starting from version 9.2, {{ech}} provides a [Managed OTLP Endpoint](/reference/motlp.md) for ingestion of OpenTelemetry data. Users can send their OTel data from the edge setup in OTel-native format through OTLP without any additional requirements for self-managed preprocessing of data.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be tagged with `{applies_to}`? Then we don't need to mention the version number in the text

2.  Enriching application telemetry from OTel SDKs with the corresponding hosts resource attributes.

:::{note}
Elastic Observability is technically compatible with edge setups that are fully based on contrib OTel components as long as the ingestion path follows the recommendations outlined in the following sections.
:::

## Deployment scenarios

The following sections outline the recommended architectures for different Elastic deployment scenarios.

### {{serverless-full}}

{{serverless-full}} provides a [Managed OTLP Endpoint](/reference/motlp.md) for ingestion of OpenTelemetry data.

![VM-Serverless](../images/host-serverless.png)

Users can send data direct from the Collectors or SDKs deployed on the edge environment through OTLP without any additional requirements for managing an ingestion layer.

### {{ech}}
```{applies_to}
ess:
stack: preview 9.2
```

{{ech}} provides a [Managed OTLP Endpoint](/reference/motlp.md) for ingestion of OpenTelemetry data. Users can send data direct from the Collectors or SDKs deployed on the edge environment through OTLP without any additional requirements for managing an ingestion layer.

> ![VM-ech](../images/host-ech.png)

Reviewer 2: The text and image for this section are not aligned.

Text indicates that users should use the managed OTLP endpoint for ECH, but the image still shows the Gateway as a required component (though with the annotation that it won't be required once mOTLP is available). But the text indicates that mOTLP is already available on ECH.

It's for @mlunadia to decide how what we want to actually recommend here, but maybe we should also call out the mOTLP on ECH is in tech preview.

![VM-Edge](../images/arch-vm-edge.png)

These edge collectors have two main purposes:

1.  The collection of local logs and infrastructure metrics. Refer to [this sample config file](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/internal/pkg/otel/samples/linux/managed_otlp/platformlogs_hostmetrics.yml) for recommended Collector receiver configurations for hostmetrics and logs.
2.  Enriching application telemetry from OTel SDKs that run within the instrumented applications on corresponding hosts with resource information.

## Deployment scenarios

Refer to the recommended architectures per Elastic deployment scenarios.

:::{note}
Elastic's Observability solution is technically compatible with edge setups that are fully based on contrib OTel components as long as the ingestion path follows the recommendations outlined in the following sections.
:::

### {{serverless-full}}

{{serverless-full}} provides a [Managed OTLP Endpoint](/reference/motlp.md) for ingestion of OpenTelemetry data.

![VM-Serverless](../images/arch-vm-serverless.png)

> Users can send their OTel data from the edge setup in OTel-native format through OTLP without any additional requirements for self-managed preprocessing of data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users can send their OTel data direct from the Collectors or SDKs deployed on the edge environment via OTLP without any additional requirements for managing an ingestion layer.
```
